+++

title = "IL-6 pathway-driven investigation of response to IL-6 receptor inhibition in rheumatoid arthritis"
date = 2013-08-19

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Jianmei Wang", "Adam Platt", "Ruchi Upmanyu", "Søren Germer", "Guiyuan Lei", "Christina Rabe", "Ryma Benayed", "Andrew Kenwright", "Andrew Hemmings", "Mitchell Martin", "Olivier Harari"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *BMJ Open*"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The objectives are to determine whether heterogeneity in interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-6 receptor and other components of the IL-6 signalling pathway/network, at the gene, transcript and protein levels, correlate with disease activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and with clinical response to tocilizumab. Our analyses illustrate that the biological activity of a disease-associated molecular pathway may impact the benefit of a therapy targeting that pathway. However, the variation in pathway activity, as measured in blood, may not be a strong predictor. These data suggest that the major contribution to variability in clinical responsiveness to therapeutics in RA remains unknown."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Links (optional).
url_source = "http://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/3/8/e003199"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++